Reference Links: 
https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/var-let-and-const-whats-the-difference/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BNC6slYCj50&list=PLlasXeu85E9cQ32gLCvAvr9vNaUccPVNP&index=10

### TLDR:
- `var` declarations are globally scoped or function scoped while `let` and `const` are block scoped.
- `var` variables can be updated and re-declared within its scope; `let` variables can be updated but not re-declared; `const` variables can neither be updated nor re-declared.
- They are all hoisted to the top of their scope. But while `var` variables are initialized with `undefined`, `let` and `const` variables are not initialized.
- While `var` and `let` can be declared without being initialized, `const` must be initialized during declaration.

* **Hoisting**  is a JavaScript mechanism where variables and function declarations are moved to the top of their scope before code execution.

-----------------
## Var

`var` declarations are globally scoped or function/locally scoped when declared within a function.



```javascript
    var greeter = "hey hi";
    
    function newFunction() {
        var hello = "hello";
    }
```


`var greeter` is globally scoped and can be accessed normally and inside newFunction()

`var hello` is locally scoped and can only be accessed within newFunction()

* Var can be re-declared and updated within the same scope.



Because of hoisting the var declaration works as following,

```javascript
    console.log (greeter);
    var greeter = "say hello"
```

```javascript
    var greeter;
    console.log(greeter); // greeter is undefined
    greeter = "say hello"
```

It does not give an error for access before initialization. But instead says `var greeter` is undefined.

#### Issues with Var

```javascript
    var greeter = "hey hi";
    var times = 4;

    if (times > 3) {
        var greeter = "say Hello instead"; 
    }
    
    console.log(greeter) // "say Hello instead"
```


If your not aware that the, var greeter has been declared earlier in the code.
The if statement as it is true, will update greeter to be a different value, which makes it prone to bugs.



## Let

Let is block scoped, fixing the issue var has.
A block is a chunk of code bounded by { }

```javascript
   let greeting = "say Hi";
   let times = 4;

   if (times > 3) {
        let hello = "say Hello instead";
        console.log(hello);// "say Hello instead"
    }
   console.log(hello) // hello is not defined
```

`hello` exists only within its block.

`let` can be updated but not re-declared, unlike var.


```javascript
   let greeting = "say Hi";
    greeting = "say Hello instead";
```

```javascript
  let greeting = "say Hi";
    let greeting = "say Hello instead"; // error: Identifier 'greeting' has already been declared
```

However it can be done in different blocks,

 ```javascript
  let greeting = "say Hi";
    if (true) {
        let greeting = "say Hello instead";
        console.log(greeting); // "say Hello instead"
    }
    console.log(greeting); // "say Hi"
```

When using `let`, you don't have to bother if you have used a name for a variable before as a variable exists only within its scope.


**Hoisting** of `let`,
Just like  `var`, `let` declarations are hoisted to the top. 
Unlike `var` which is initialized as `undefined`, the `let` keyword is not initialized. So if you try to use a `let` variable before declaration, you'll get a `Reference Error`.

The time between `let` is hoisted, and till its value is declared, is called a Temporal Dead-zone. Where the `let` variable is assigned a memory space, but is not initialized. 
To avoid it, its better to declare and initialize the variables at the top of the scope.

## Const

`const` variables can only be accessed within the block its declared in. 
`const` variables cannot be updated or re-decalred. Every `const` declaration, therefore, must be initialized at the time of declaration.

But if we declare a const object, we can still update the properties of that object, like so

```javascript
    const greeting = {
        message: "say Hi",
        times: 4
    }
```

```javascript
    greeting.message = "say Hello instead";
```

**Hoisting** of const,
Just like `let`, `const` declarations are hoisted to the top but are not initialized.